---
title: "FSG+290322"
jurisdiction: "AU"
category: "T&Cs/Payments-Remitaence/send"
source: "anonymized_template"
---

Financial Services Guide
V1.1 [DATE]

Financial Services Guide (‘FSG’)
Service provider information
Service provider:

SendFX Limited ACN [PHONE](‘Send’)

Contact details:

Registered Office: [ADDRESS]
Southport QLD 4215
Tel:
[PHONE]
Email:
[EMAIL]
Website:
www.sendpayments.com

Australian Financial Services Licence:

[PHONE]
FSG version:

1.1

FSG Issue date:

[DATE]

Purpose
This Financial Services Guide contains important



our privacy obligations;



how you can make a complaint and how
complaints are dealt with.

information to assist you in making an informed
decision about whether to utilise our Services. The

If you need further information, please contact

purpose of this guide is to provide you with material

us at [EMAIL].

information before you enter into a transaction with
Send for our Services, including the following
information:


who will be providing the Services and how
you can contact us;



the kinds of financial services offered, and
what we are licenced to provide;



who we are acting for;



what documentation we will provide to you

Send’s services
Australian

Services

Licence

(‘AFSL’)

Authorisation
Send is the holder of an AFSL (licence number
[PHONE]), and is authorised pursuant to this licence
to carry on a financial services business to:
a.

provide general financial product advice for
the following classes of financial products:

and how we comply with our record keeping

i.

obligations;


Financial

deposit and payment products
limited

how we are remunerated for the Services

to

non-cash

payment

products; and

we provide and what remuneration and

ii.

foreign exchange contracts;

commission will be received by our staff,
representatives and partners;


any relevant relationships that may result in
a conflict of interest;



b.

deal in a financial product by:
i.

issuing,

applying

for,

acquiring,

varying or disposing of a financial

our compensation arrangements;

Send Financial Services Guide

1

product in respect of the following

mutually agreed by us, including via any Send-

classes of financial products:

developed products such as an API.

(A)

deposit

and

payment

products limited to non-cash
payment products; and
(B)

foreign exchange contracts;
and

ii.

Who do we act for?
Unless advised to the contrary, we act for you as
principal when providing the Services. Where a client
is made up of more than one person, we act for
those persons jointly unless mutually agreed to the

applying for, acquiring, varying or
disposing of a financial product on
behalf of another person in respect

contrary.

Documentation

of the following classes of products:

Send will provide important documentation to you

(A)

to assist in the provision of our Services and to help

deposit

and

payment

products limited to non-cash
payment products; and
(B)

foreign exchange contracts
where

money

is

made

you make informed decisions.
These may include:


required to accept prior to utilising our

made available to a person

Services and that will apply to every

nominated by the client; and
c.

Terms and Conditions that you will be

available or cause to be

make a market for foreign exchange
contracts – limited to foreign exchange
contracts where money is made available
or caused to be made available to a person
nominated by the client;

transaction you make while using our
Services;


confirmation documentation in regards to
transactions you make;



Product

Disclosure

Statement

for

any

financial products offered to you, which will
outline key information about the relevant

to retail and wholesale clients.
Send’s Services
Send provides the following services:



decision about whether to purchase the
product.

general advice regarding our financial

Copies of our Terms and Conditions, Product

products;

Disclosure Statement and this Financial Services

dealing and wallet services for foreign

Guide will be available on our website, or by email

exchange spot and delayed transactions

request to [EMAIL].

and contracts; and


product so you can make an informed

market-making services in respect of our
foreign exchange products.

Methods of providing Services
When utilising our Services, we may accept
instructions from you in person, by telephone, online
via the Send platform, or by another method
Send Financial Services Guide

General advice warning
We will only ever provide you with general advice
regarding any transaction you enter into with Send.
This advice will not take into account your personal
situation and objectives or your specific financial
circumstances.

2

Accordingly, you will need to make your own

Our margin and subsequent profit amount will vary

assessment

are

depending on the currency, the market, and

appropriate for you. We recommend that you take

arrangements we enter into with third parties,

all necessary steps to understand the risks and

including our liquidity provider/s.

as to

whether

our

Services

implications of utilising our Services and obtain
independent advice from a licenced professional

Third party transaction and processing fees

regarding the suitability of our Services for you prior

While Send does not charge any fees for the use of

to retaining Send’s Services.

its Services, in some instances transaction and

While Send will take all reasonable steps to ensure
the information and general advice provided is
accurate

and

reliable,

Send

makes

no

representations about the accuracy, completeness
or currency of any information or general advice

processing fees may be charged by third party
banks. For example, where payment failure or
intermediary bank fees are charged. These fees are
set and charged by the third-party provider without
notice to Send and will be passed on to you.

given. No responsibility is assumed regarding the

Third party transactions and processing fees are

accuracy,

outside Send’s control will vary depending on the

completeness

or

currency

of

any

information or general advice provided, by Send or
by

its

directors,

employees,

officers,

agents,

associates, contractors or sub-contractors.

will

maintain

accurate

records

In addition to the above, Send may from time to time
and at its sole discretion integrate certain pay-in
methods which attract a third-party fee for use.

Send’s record keeping obligations
Send

relevant charge and the third party.

of

all

transactions entered into and any advice given.
Send may record telephone calls and retain those
recordings in accordance with our call recording
and data retention policies. These recordings may
be used for training purposes and in the event that
there is a dispute with you or otherwise in
accordance with our Privacy Policy.

Remuneration, commission and benefits
Send’s income
Send is generally remunerated for its services from

These fees are the cost charged by the third-party
pay-in service provider to utilise that pay-in method
and may be passed on to you. These fees will vary
but are typically a set fee or a percentage of the
value transferring (or a combination of both) - Send
does not set the fees or make any profit on the fees.
Send will display the fee to you at the point of
transfer so you can decide whether to proceed with
that pay-in method. You can opt out of paying these
fees by utilising a pay-in method that does not
attract fees (for example by paying via payID).
Commissions and Remunerations paid by us

profit generated from the spread applied to foreign

Our staff and representatives receive remuneration

currency exchange transactions (‘margin’). That is,

from us and may receive commission for assisting

the difference between the wholesale market rate

you with providing our Services. The calculation of

that we purchase from our liquidity providers, and

commission varies depending on the staff member

the trade price which is then sold and provided to

or representative, their role and experience.

you.

Send’s income is

incorporated into the

exchange rates quoted to you and is not an
additional fee.
Send Financial Services Guide

Referral Agreements
We may enter into referral agreements with
partners and pay commission to those partners in

3

respect of referrals made by them. Commission

in the manner outlined under our Privacy Policy,

structures will vary depending on the partner, but will

which is available on our website. Send will not

typically be calculated as a percentage of the net

otherwise

profit generated by each transaction made by a

without your consent.

client referred by the partner.

disclose

your

personal

information

If you have any concerns regarding the use of your

Particulars of commissions

Personal Information or our Privacy Policy, or would

You may request further particulars of commission
or other benefits payable in respect of our Services,
however this request must be made within a
reasonable time after being given this Financial
Services Guide and before any Service identified in
this guide is provided to you.

like to receive a copy of our Privacy Policy please
contact us at [EMAIL].

Complaints handling
We have an internal dispute resolution process in
place to handle any concerns or complaints that
you may have as quickly and fairly as possible.

Conflict of interest disclosure

In the first instance, any concerns or complaints you

Subject to any further disclosures outlined in our

have should first be raised with your usual contact

Product Disclosure Statement or this FSG, we do not

at Send. If the matter is not resolved to your

have any relationships or associations which might

satisfaction, you may escalate your complaint in

influence us or result in a conflict when providing

writing to our management team who will conduct

you with our Services.

an investigation and attempt to resolve the matter

Professional indemnity insurance
Send’s professional indemnity insurance complies
with

the

requirements

for

compensation

arrangements outlined under section 912B of the

Corporations Act 2001 (C’th), and applies to claims
made for loss or damage suffered because of
legislative breaches by Send or its representatives
(including representatives that no longer work for
Send).

Privacy
Your privacy is important to us. We are committed
to complying with our legislative obligations under
the Privacy Act 1988 (C’th) and all other relevant
regulations, and we have implemented policies to
safeguard your information, including secure data
storage and access procedures, and technologybased security and access mechanisms.
By agreeing to our Terms and Conditions, you agree

or provide a final response within 30 days, or such
other time period that is reasonably necessary
having regard to the circumstances.
If, after 30 days you are not satisfied with the
outcome of our internal investigation you have the
right to complain to the Australian Financial
Complaints Authority (‘AFCA’). AFCA is an approved
external dispute resolution scheme of which Send is
a member, and provides an independent financial
services dispute resolution process which is free for
consumers.
You can contact AFCA as follows:
Australian Financial Complaints Authority,
[ADDRESS]
Melbourne VIC 3001
Tel: [PHONE](free call)
Email: [EMAIL]
Website: www.afca.org.au

and consent to our use of your personal information
Send Financial Services Guide

4