---
title: "PDS+290322"
jurisdiction: "AU"
category: "T&Cs/Payments-Remitaence/send"
source: "anonymized_template"
---

Product Disclosure Statement
V1.1 [DATE]

PRODUCT DISCLOSURE STATEMENT (‘PDS’)
Product issuer information
Product Issuer:

SendFX Limited ACN [PHONE](‘Send’)

Contact details:

Registered Office: [ADDRESS]

[ADDRESS]

[EMAIL]

Southport QLD 4215

Website:

AUSTRALIA

www.sendpayments.com

Tel:
[PHONE]
Australian Financial Services Licence:

[PHONE]
PDS version:

1.1

PDS Issue date:

[DATE]

Important information
This PDS has been prepared and issued by SendFX

Jurisdiction

Limited ACN [PHONE](‘Send’), who is the product

This PDS only applies to our Products offered in

issuer. It contains important information to assist

Australia,

you in making an informed decision about whether

jurisdictions. It is intended for distribution in Australia

to purchase our products. Please ensure that you

only. If you have obtained a copy of this PDS in a

read the PDS in its entirety prior to purchasing our

jurisdiction outside of Australia, we recommend that

Products. This PDS is binding on all our clients.

you obtain advice regarding any restrictions that

which

may

be

restricted

in

other

apply to you.
Any capitalised terms in this PDS are defined in the
glossary. Examples are for illustrative purposes only

Send retains sole discretion to refuse to provide its

to assist you in understanding how our products

services and Products to any person or in any place

work. They do not consider your circumstances, and

including where it would be unlawful to do so.

do not constitute an offer, recommendation or
reflection of the current or previous markets.

General Advice only
We only offer general advice to our clients. We do

This PDS is subject to change and may be updated

not provide any personal advice. This PDS does not

from

constitute advice and does not take into account

time

to

time.

Send

may

also

issue

supplementary or replacement PDS, as necessary.

your personal situation and objectives or your
specific financial circumstances.

Further information and documents
In addition to considering this PDS, you will also be

You will need to make your own assessment as to

required to review and agree to be bound by our

whether our Products are appropriate for you. We

Terms and Conditions, Financial Services Guide

recommend that you take all necessary steps to

(‘FSG’) and Privacy Policy prior to retaining our

understand the risks and implications of entering

services

These

into a foreign exchange contract and obtain

documents are available on our website, or by

independent advice from a licenced professional

request to [EMAIL].

(including

or

purchasing

our

Products.

legal

advice,

taxation

advice

and

1

accounting advice) regarding the suitability of our
Product for you and whether you should acquire our
Product prior to retaining our services.
Availability of PDS
This PDS (as amended from time to time) as well as
any

supplementary

or

replacement

PDS

are

available free of charge and on our website.
If you would like to receive a hard copy of this PDS, or
have any queries in regards to this PDS, please email
[EMAIL].

Send Product Disclosure Statement

2

Summary of PDS information
This summary is for your assistance only. Please ensure that you read the whole of this PDS.
Query

Summary

For further info

see page:
Who is the issuer of the

SendFX Limited ACN [PHONE](AFSL [PHONE])

1

How can I contact the

Registered Office: [ADDRESS]

1

issuer?

[ADDRESS]

[EMAIL]

Southport QLD 4215

Website:

Tel:

www.sendpayments.com

products?

[PHONE]
What are the products ?

Send offers:



3-11

Foreign Exchange Contracts – specifically Spot Contracts
(including Limit and Stop Orders) and Delayed Contracts; and



A prepaid facility which may be used to make payment for
Foreign Exchange Contracts.

What are the benefits

Entering into a Foreign Exchange Contract allows you lock in an

of the products?

exchange rate and gain certainty against fluctuations in the market.

6, 9, 11, 12

Send offers a wide range of currencies and a range of flexible options
to cater to your foreign exchange requirements. Purchasing a prepaid
facility enables you to load funds to be utilised towards Foreign
Exchange Contracts purchased by you, allowing speedy settlement of
Foreign Exchange Contracts once purchased. Additional benefits are
outlined below.
What are the risk s of

While locking in a rate protects you from negative movements in the

the products?

market, it also precludes you from benefiting from favourable market

6, 7, 9-11

changes. The market is volatile and can change rapidly, with significant
impacts on the Exchange Rates we are able to offer you from time to
time. As with all services providers in the market, we are subject to a
wide range of operational, counterparty, technological and security
risks – we have implemented measures to minimise these risks and
they are described in more detail below.
What fees are payable

There are no transaction fees charged by Send in respect of our

in

prepaid facility or in respect of our Foreign Exchange Contracts.

respect

of

the

products?

13-14

However third-party providers (such as an intermediary bank, your
beneficiary bank, or third party pay-in service providers) may charge
transaction fees in respect of Foreign Exchange Contracts which are
passed on to you. Send makes its money in the margin of its Foreign
Exchange Contracts which is incorporated into the Exchange Rate
quoted to you.

How is my information

Your privacy is important to us. Our Privacy Policy is available on our

kept private?

Website, or by request to [EMAIL],.

How

a

We pride ourselves on our service. If we have not met your expectations

concern or complaint?

do

I

raise

for any reason, please let us know by contacting us in writing to

16,17
16

[EMAIL] or otherwise by the contact details above.
We have implemented an internal dispute resolution process to ensure
that we deal with any concerns or complaints you may have as quickly,
fairly and impartially as possible.

Send Product Disclosure Statement

3

1.

Our Services
Send services
Send assists its clients to transfer foreign currency
online via the Send Platform, and by telephone. It
may, from time to time, provide its services via
various product-based mechanisms, including for
example, by API.
For further information please see our FSG.
Authorisation to provide the services
Send is regulated by the Australian Securities and
Investments Commission and is a registered
remittance provider with the Australian Transaction
Reports and Analysis Centre.
Send is authorised to provide general financial
product advice, as well as deal and make a market
in foreign exchange contracts to both retail and

Further information regarding Spot and Delayed
Contracts is outlined below at sections 3 and 4.
Send also provides a prepaid facility to facilitate
payment

by

its

clients

of

Foreign

Exchange

Contracts (‘Send Account’). Further information
regarding this facility is outlined below at section 3.
Send does not provide any speculative services.
What is an Exchange Rate?
An Exchange Rate is the rate or price that one
currency can be purchased or sold at, in exchange
for another currency.
Exchange Rates fluctuate constantly depending on
the market, and as there is no official or benchmark
Exchange Rate for foreign currency, you may be
Example 1 - Spot Contract Exchange Rate

wholesale clients pursuant to its Australian Financial

Cassie lives in Australia and wants to purchase a

Services Licence (‘AFSL’) (AFSL number [PHONE]).

house in New Zealand for her mum to live in. The
house is NZD[AMOUNT]. Accordingly, the currency

2. Send products

pairing is AUD/NZD with:


Our products

and

Send offers Foreign Exchange Contracts to its clients,



assisting with the purchase of one currency in

Send offers Foreign Exchange Contracts as either
Spot Contracts or Delayed Contracts.

The receiving currency being New Zealand
Dollars.

exchange for another at an agreed Exchange Rate
on an agreed Settlement Date.

The base currency being Australian Dollars;

Cassie is quoted a Spot Contract Exchange Rate of
1.06. To calculate the amount of AUD Cassie needs to
settle the purchase:
Base currency =



Receiving currency
Exchange Rate

Spot contracts mature on a Settlement
Date which is generally within 2 business
=

days after the trade has been entered into;

NZD250,000
1.06



Delayed Contracts mature on a Settlement
Date in the future within the next 12 months.

Accordingly, Cassie would need AUD[AMOUNT]to
purchase NZD[AMOUNT]at a Spot Exchange Rate of
1.06.

Send Product Disclosure Statement

4

quoted different Exchange Rates from different

charged by a service provider in combination with

service providers depending on a number of factors.

the Exchange Rate offered, as a service provider
may combine competitive rates with high fees.

Examples of how Exchange Rates are used in a
Foreign Exchange Contract are detailed above and

We will always endeavour to provide competitive

below.

Exchange Rates, and, where comparable (having
regard to any transaction fees or other different

Example 2 - Spot Contract Exchange Rate

factors), may match Exchange Rates offered by
other service providers.

Cassie later wants to transfer AUD[AMOUNT]of savings
to New Zealand to cover ongoing house and living

For further information on fees and how we make

expenses. She is quoted an Exchange Rate for a Spot

money in respect of the Exchange Rate offered,

transfer of 1.058.

please see section 8 below.



The base currency is Australian Dollars;

What currencies can Send exchange?



The receiving currency is New Zealand

We have a comprehensive offering of currencies

Dollars.

that we can exchange which may change from time

To calculate the amount of NZD Cassie will obtain
from the transfer:
Receiving currency =

to time. A full list of the currencies that Send can
transfer can be obtained from your Send Account
Manager.

Base currency x Exchange
Rate
= AUD[AMOUNT]x 1.058

Accordingly, Cassie would be able to transfer her
AUD[AMOUNT]to NZD[AMOUNT]at a Spot Exchange Rate
of 1.058

What can Foreign Exchange Contracts be used for?
Foreign Exchange Contracts can be used for a
number of reasons including:


to facilitate an emigration or temporary
relocation overseas;



sending money to family located overseas;



buying

or

selling

foreign

property

or

Why do Exchange Rates differ between service

transferring funds raised from sale of shares

providers?

or other assets;

Quotes for Exchange Rates will differ between



paying bills in other currencies;

service providers for a number of reasons, which



purchasing goods and materials from

could include the currency pairing, the market, how

overseas and paying an invoice in a foreign

the service provider makes money from the

currency;

transaction, and the type of Foreign Exchange



Contract you are purchasing (i.e. a Spot Contract

receiving or paying an inheritance or
transfer of an estate;

Exchange Rate may be different to the Exchange



working offshore and repatriating funds;

Rate offered for a Delayed Contract).



paying international school fees;



importing vehicles;



paying for overseas medical bills and

You should shop around to ensure that you achieve
the best possible Exchange Rate, to maximise the

treatment.

funds you obtain in any foreign currency transfer.
However, in addition to the Exchange Rate, you
should also consider any extra fees that may be
Send Product Disclosure Statement

5

Example 3 - Spot Contract

3. Spot contract
A Spot Contract is an agreement to exchange one
currency for another currency at a Spot Contract
Exchange Rate for settlement within two working
days, meaning we must have received the cleared
funds that you are transferring within two days
(‘Spot Contract’).

Per the previous example, Cassie is purchasing a
property in New Zealand for NZD[AMOUNT]. It is
currently 1 March, and the property doesn’t settle
until 1 May, but she needs to arrange to transfer her
Australian Dollars into New Zealand Dollars before
completion to effect the purchase.
Cassie has two options if she is sending the funds by

Once the cleared funds have been received, subject
to all compliance processes being acceptable, we

Spot Contract. She could send the funds now or
send the funds at a later date, closer to completion.

will transfer the funds to the beneficiary account in

Option 1:

the requested currency. The time it will take for the

Cassie obtains a quote on 1 March from Send at

funds to reach the beneficiary account will depend

1.0652 and is happy with the proposed Spot

on a number of factors, including the type of

Contract Exchange Rate, so she decides to send the

currency, the beneficiary account and when we

funds now.

receive the cleared funds.

=

NZD250,[PHONE]
Benefits of a Spot Contract

Accordingly, Cassie needs to send AUD[AMOUNT]to

The material benefits of entering into a Spot

obtain NZD[AMOUNT]under this option.

Contract and utilising a Send Account include:
Option 2:







speed of the funds transfer – if you have

Cassie decides to keep an eye on the market and

funds in your Send Account, the settlement

wait to send the funds at a later date. Under this

for a Spot Contract can occur immediately;

option, there is a chance that the Exchange Rate

certainty around the Exchange Rate for the

offered could rise or fall from one quote to the next

transfer,

due to changes in the market.

resulting

in

protection

for

fluctuations in the market;

On 1 April, Cassie sees that the market has moved,

option to set up Limit and Stop Orders (see

and accordingly, the Exchange Rate quoted by Send

below);

has dropped to 1.0414. Rather than risk further

option to set up flexible regular payments

downward movement, she decides to lock in the

(see below).

Exchange Rate available on 1 April.

Please see section 6 below for additional general
benefits of utilising Send’s services.

=

NZD[AMOUNT][PHONE]
Accordingly, Cassie needs to send AUD[AMOUNT]Risks of a Spot Contract

to obtain NZD[AMOUNT]at 1 April under this example

The material risks of entering into a Spot Contract

(a cost increase of AUD[AMOUNT]in comparison to if

include:

Cassie had traded on 1 March under option 1).
However, if instead of dropping, the market had



once a contract has been booked, you will

actually improved and risen to 1.079 on 1 April, it

not be able to benefit from positive rate

would have cost Cassie AUD[AMOUNT]to send

increases in the market.

NZD[AMOUNT]which is [AMOUNT]less than what it
would have cost to send on 1 March under option 1).

Send Product Disclosure Statement

6

Please see example 3. This example is hypothetical

regardless of whether any further notice was

and only for the purpose of assisting you to

received by you.

understand what a Spot Contract is. It does not
relate to your transaction and is not an offer.

Please note that the nominated Exchange Rate will
only be deemed to have been reached where the

Please see section 7 below for additional general

relevant rate has been filled by our liquidity provider,

risks of utilising Send’s services.

having regard to our margin and all other factors
(see further information about margin in paragraph

Limit and Stop Orders

8 below), and may only be available during certain

Limit and Stop Orders are instructions given by you

times (for example within business hours).

in advance to enter into a Spot Contract at the point
that the market:

Once the Order has been filled, you will be lawfully
bound to settle the Order in accordance with our



has risen to achieve a nominated target

Terms and Conditions – including ensuring that we

Exchange Rate (Limit Order); or

receive full funds necessary to settle the contract as
per Send’s direction.



has fallen to a nominated Exchange Rate
(Stop Order).

If you fail to settle a Limit or Stop Order that has been
filled within the relevant timeframes, Send reserves

Send may at its discretion impose minimum

its right to terminate the contract and recover its

contract amounts for Limit and Stop Orders for Spot

losses arising from the termination from you,

Contracts.

including recovering those losses from any Advance
Deposit/s that have been paid by you.

Send may agree to enter into Stop or Limit Orders at
its discretion, and you may be required to pay

Example – Limit and Stop Orders

Advance Deposit/s to book a Limit or Stop Order. The

An example of a Limit and Stop Order is outlined

amount

overpage

of

the

Advance

Deposit/s

will

be

(see

example

4).

This

example

is

determined by Send in its discretion, in order to

hypothetical and only for the purpose of assisting

cover Send’s risk of entering into this transaction.

you to understand what Limit and Stop Orders are. It

Please see further about Advance Deposits below.

does not relate to your transaction and is not an
offer.

You may cancel a Limit and Stop Order before the
nominated Exchange Rate is achieved by providing
notice to Send during business hours. Please note
that it may take up to three hours during business
hours for a cancellation to be processed, and the
cancellation is not effective until such time as you
receive confirmation of the cancellation.
Once a nominated Exchange Rate has been
achieved, and you receive confirmation of the
booking from Send the Order will be filled by Send
(subject to any valid cancellation of the Order),

Send Product Disclosure Statement

7

4. Delayed contract

Example 4 – Limit and Stop Order
Using the facts outlined at Example 1, another
option for Cassie would be to set up a Limit and/
or Stop Order.
Cassie

decides

A Delayed Contract is an agreement to exchange
one currency for another currency at a Delayed
Contract Exchange Rate that you agree on now, for

that

she

wants

to

see

if

movements in the market mean that she can
obtain a better rate than that quoted on 1 March.
She decides to set up a Limit Order for an
Exchange rate of 1.07, so Send will book the
transaction if the Exchange Rate increases to the
desired rate.
However, Cassie is also conscious that the market
may not reach 1.07, and that changes in the
market could result in a downward impact on the
Exchange Rate she can obtain. Accordingly, she
also sets up a Stop Order for an Exchange Rate of
1.045, so Send will book the transaction if the
market falls to this set rate.
As she has booked both a Limit Order and Stop
Order, the transaction will be booked at whichever
occurs sooner: the Exchange Rate increasing to
the Limit Order rate, or falling to the Stop Order rate
– that is, achieving one Order will cancel the other.
Once either rate has been achieved, and Send

settlement on a future agreed date (‘Settlement
Date’) within 12 months (‘Delayed Contract’).
You must pay an Advance Deposit at the time of
booking to secure a Delayed Contract (see further
on Advance Deposits below), and we must receive
the balance of the amount that you are sending in
cleared funds prior to the Settlement Date.
Subject

beneficiary account will depend on a number of
factors, including the type of currency and the
beneficiary account.
Advance payments for Delayed Contracts
Send may, in its complete discretion, ask you to pay
either or both:


notice and allowing sufficient time for the
cancellation, for example if she wants to simply
proceed with a regular Spot Contract.

an Initial Advance Deposit, being a part
payment of the final settlement amount of
a Foreign Exchange Contract that you are
required to pay in order to cover Send’s
settlement risk as calculated by Send at its

risk in respect of the transaction.

cancel the Limit Order or Stop Order by giving

sole discretion; and/ or


one or more Additional Advance Deposit/s,
being a further part payment of the final
settlement amount of a Foreign Exchange
Contract that you are required to pay in
order to cover additional risk incurred by
Send (as calculated by Send in its sole
discretion) and which has arisen since the
time of the initial booking of the Foreign
Exchange Contract.

Send Product Disclosure Statement

being

Date. The time it will take for the funds to reach the

requested to secure the contract and cover Send’s

transfers the funds in time. Cassie can decide to

processes

account in the requested currency from Settlement

Cassie pays an initial deposit in advance as

she will need to monitor the trade to ensure she

compliance

will then transfer the funds to the beneficiary

binding contract that Cassie is required to fulfil.

effect the completion of her overseas property,

all

acceptable and cleared funds being received, we

confirms the transaction, it becomes a legally

As Cassie requires the funds by a certain date to

to

8

The amount of the Initial Advance Deposit is at



protection from fluctuations in the market;



certainty of the Exchange Rate achieved.

Send’s discretion but will typically be around 10% of
the

total

settlement

amount

of

the

Foreign

Please see section 6 below for additional general

Exchange Contract in the base currency.

benefits of utilising Send’s services.

One or more Additional Advance Deposit/s may be

Risks of a Delayed Contract

payable at Send’s discretion in the event that there

The material risks of entering into a Delayed

are changes in the market or any other event which

Contract include:

results in the risk to Send increasing above the Initial
Advance Deposit collected (if any). In this event, an



once a contract has been booked, you will

Additional Advance Deposit will be required to be

not be able to benefit from positive rate

paid by you to cover the additional risk. The amount

increases in the market;

of the Additional Advance Deposit will be limited to



Advance Deposits;

5% of the sending currency in the Foreign Exchange
Contract per request.
There is no limit on the number of Additional
Advance Deposits that Send may request you to
pay, however Send may only request that one
Additional Advance Deposit is paid per 24-hour
period.

settlement payment, Send reserves its rights to
terminate the Delayed Contract, and recover its loss
from you, including any amount which exceeds any
Advance Deposits held in respect of the Foreign
Exchange Contract.
Benefits of a Delayed Contract
The material benefits of entering into a Delayed
Contract include:
benefits those with more time to make a
transfer;


secure a rate now with only the Advance
Deposit/s payable until the Settlement Date
– meaning that you could benefit from
interest accruing on the balance settlement
amount up until the Settlement Date;



Example 5 – Delayed Contract
Using the facts outlined above, another option for
Cassie would be to enter into a Delayed Contract,
with a settlement date just before the funds are
required for her property completion.
For example, Cassie may be quoted a Delayed

If you fail to pay an Advance Payment or a final



you may be requested to pay Additional

enables you flexibility on when you pay the
balance amount as long as it is received
prior to Settlement Date;

Send Product Disclosure Statement

Contract rate of 1.059 with a settlement date of 20
April.
=

NZD[AMOUNT]1.059

Cassie pays an initial deposit of 10% in advance as
requested to secure the contract and cover Send’s
risk in respect of the transaction.
There is a swing in the market, and Send requests
that Cassie deposits an additional 2% deposit to
cover additional risk arising from the market
change.
At the Settlement Date Cassie ensures that Send
has received the balance of the AUD (being
[AMOUNT]less the Advance Deposits received)
and the transferred funds are released to Cassie’s
NZD account to effect the transfer.
At the Settlement Date, the market may have
dropped or risen. However, by securing the
Delayed Contract, Cassie has certainty on the rate
she will obtain, reduced her exposure to changes
in the market, and she has only been required to
pay the deposit amounts prior to Settlement Date.
9



you are required to settle a contract, even if
your reason for the transfer no longer exists
(e.g. where you book a Delayed Contract for
the purchase of a property, but the sale of
the property falls over);



if you fail to settle a contract, or otherwise
breach the terms of your contract, Send is
entitled to terminate the contract and you
will be liable in respect of losses incurred by
Send as a result of your breach.

Please see sections 7 below for additional general
risks of utilising Send’s services.
Example – Delayed Contract
An example of a Delayed Contract is outlined below
(see example 5). This example is hypothetical and
only for the purpose of assisting you to understand
what a Delayed Contract is. It does not relate to your
transaction and is not an offer.
Regular payments
You can ask that we set up a regular payment for
you up to 12 months in advance either as a series of
Delayed Contracts, or a recurring Spot Contract.
You may be requested to pay an Advance Deposit
in respect of any Regular payments, but otherwise
these contracts will attract the same obligations as
detailed above.
A recurring Spot Contract can be cancelled at any
time by providing at least 3 business days’ notice to
Send. You are lawfully obliged to settle any series of
Delayed Contracts entered into.
Example – Regular payments
An example of a Regular Payment is outlined below
(see example 6). This example is hypothetical and
only for the purpose of assisting you to understand
what a Regular Payment is. It does not relate to your
transaction and is not an offer.

Example 6 – Regular Payments
Cassie’s house purchase has completed and
now she needs to arrange for regular payments
to her New Zealand account to cover ongoing
direct debits and expenses relating to the
property.
She has two options for setting up the payments:


a series of Delayed Contracts; or



a series of Spot Contracts.

Option 1 – a series of Delayed Contracts
By entering into a series of Delayed Contracts
Cassie can gain some certainty around the
Exchange Rate she achieves, and is protected
from fluctuations in the market.
She would be required to settle the Delayed
Contracts as per the ordinary method outlined
above (i.e. advance payment of a deposit, and
then pay the transfer amount in full by the
Relevant Settlement Date). This also means that
she would be bound to settle all Delayed
Contracts she enters into even if the reason she
entered into the Delayed Contracts ceases to
exist– if she failed to settle a Delayed Contract in
the series, or otherwise breached her obligations
in respect of the Delayed Contracts, Send would
be entitled to terminate the Delayed Contracts
and Cassie may be liable in respect of any losses
arising due to the breach.
Option 2 – a series of Spot Contracts
By entering into a series of Spot Contracts Cassie
would be agreeing to allow Send to apply a spot
Exchange Rate to each transfer. Each Spot
Contract could be booked a maximum of 2
business days out from the Settlement Date.
She would be required to settle the Spot
Contracts as per the ordinary method outlined
above (i.e. ensuring that the transfer amount was
received by Send before each Settlement Date).
While Cassie would be more vulnerable to
fluctuations in the market with this option, it gives
her more flexibility, as she would be able to cancel
the contracts if required, by giving notice to Send.

Send Product Disclosure Statement

10

which time there may be movement in the

5. Send Account

market of exchange rates).

A Send Account is a prepaid facility purchased by
you

with

Send

pursuant

to

our

Terms

and

Conditions. Funding in the Send Account may be
used to make payment for a Foreign Exchange
Contract, or other Send products as offered from
time to time.
Funds in the Send Account that are not utilised to
purchase a Foreign Exchange Contract may be
refunded at your request (or otherwise pursuant to
our Terms and Conditions) to the account that
funded the Send Account.

if you have funded your Send Account and
those funds sit there for a period of time, this
balance will not be available towards other
purposes during this time period (for
example, accruing interest etc.) unless
refunded.

Please see section 7 below for additional general
risks of utilising Send’s services.
Example – Send Account
An example of a Send Account is outlined below
(see example 7). This example is hypothetical and
only for the purpose of assisting you to understand

Benefits of a Send Account
The material benefits of utilising a Send Account
include:




speed of the funds transfer – if you have

what a Delayed Contract is. It does not relate to your
transaction and is not an offer.
Example 7 – Send Account

funds in your Send Account, you can act

After the house sale, Cassie has some NZD leftover

quickly to lock in a favourable exchange

in New Zealand. She funds her Send Account with

rate and the settlement for a Spot Contract
can occur immediately, subject to meeting
with

any

outstanding

compliance

these funds and watches the market.
She notices the NZDAUD rates are favourable and
books in a Spot Contract with her account

processes.

manager utilising the NZD balance in the Send
Please see section 6 below for additional general

Account. Because the funds are already with Send

benefits of utilising Send’s services.

in the Send Account, the settlement of the Spot
Contract can occur quickly and she receives the

Risks of a Send Account
The material risks of funding your Send Account

funds in AUD shortly after booking the transfer.
If Cassie had not funded her Send Account, the

include:

settlement of the Spot Contract would not have


if you have a balance in your Send Account

occurred until she had transferred her funds to

but decide not to purchase a Foreign

Send, and they had landed and cleared with Send.

Exchange Contract or to utilise another
foreign exchange service provider, or Send
otherwise
requirement

declines
under

to

service

your

our

Terms

and

6. General Benefits

Conditions, it may take a period of time to

There are significant general benefits of using

process a refund and for those funds to be

Send’s services, including:

received back to your bank account (during

Send Product Disclosure Statement

11




access to exceptional service from a

and Exchange Rates quoted to you may fluctuate

dedicated account manager;

rapidly.

competitive Exchange Rates with no Send
transaction fees;

Additionally, where you have funded a Send



real-time pricing;

Account, these funds can only be either utilised



transparency over your transactions;

towards the purchase of a Foreign Exchange



access to a wide international and local

Contract or refunded to the account of origin.

payments network;

Should you or Send require the balance of the Send

access to leading technology to monitor

account to be refunded, it may take some time for

and book your transactions on the move.

the funds to credit in your account, during which



time there may be favourable or unfavourable
market movement.

7. General Risks
Trading in Foreign Exchange Contracts involves an
inherent degree of risk, and you should only
purchase these Products if you are able to absorb
and assume the risk of any such loss.
Send

does

not

guarantee

the

Counterparty risks
A counterparty risk is the risk that we do not uphold
our obligation to you to fulfil any Foreign Exchange
Contract agreed to, or that we may be unable to
fulfil those obligations at the time that they are due

investment

performance of Foreign Exchange Contracts. Past
performance is no indication or guarantee of future
performance.
Accordingly, before utilising Send’s services, you
should carefully consider the risks associated with

(including where Send, or its liquidity provider/s
become insolvent, or otherwise unable to settle
transactions).
Send manages this risk by:


This section does not purport to be an exhaustive list
of potential risks, however, we have outlined some of



lock in the agreed Exchange Rate, which means that
you are precluded from making any gains from a
favourable change in the rates available on the
market.
Likewise, changes in the market may impact you
unfavourably. Changes in global affairs may impact
on the market, including the availability and price of

hedging

where possible, settling trades back-to-



stringent reconciliation and monitoring of
between liquidity provider accounts, client
money accounts and Send house accounts;
and



strict due diligence on liquidity providers at
appointment and ongoing.

Operational risk
Operational risk covers many aspects of the
business and trading process and can include loss
or delay arising due to failed or inadequate systems
and processes, including failures by third party
providers that we rely on to provide our services.
Send manages this risk by:

a currency. Accordingly, the market may be volatile
Send Product Disclosure Statement

trading

back to reduce exposure;

Products below.

By entering into a Foreign Exchange Contract, you

strict

providers;

the general risks which arise in respect of our

Market risks

a

program with highly regarded liquidity

our Products, and gain appropriate professional
advice about whether they are suitable for you.

maintaining

12



implementing a strict compliance program;

Discretionary rights risk



implementing

Pursuant to our Terms and Conditions, Send retains

monitoring

and

supervision

procedures;

a number of discretionary rights, which may impact

segregating duties to minimize access to

on your use of our services. These include the right

backend systems and increase the layers of

to terminate a transaction, require you to pay an

controls;

Advance Deposit, require you to provide information



compulsory high-level training of staff;

or materials, or suspend or close your account.



automisation of technology where possible to



reduce



potential

human

error,

including

In some instances, Send may be obliged to enforce

enriching processes with leading third-party

its

discretionary

providers where relevant;

requirements.

rights

due

to

legislative

undertaking strict due diligence and entering
into

written

agreements

with

outsourced

providers.

If Send enforces its right to terminate a contract, it
may result in a liability for you in respect of loss
which is incurred by Send relating to the termination.

Technology and data security risk
Send relies on a technological platform to provide

For further information and particulars on our

its services. There are always risks associated with

discretionary rights, please carefully review our

the use of technology, including software errors

Terms and Conditions.

and bugs, interruptions to the supply of internet
and other technological services, security

8. Fees and costs

breaches, delays in technology systems etc.

Does Send charge transaction fees?

Send manages this risk by:


No.

implementing stringent monitoring, testing and
development processes;



and processing fees may be charged by third party

robust testing programs of all systems and

banks, which will be passed on to you. For example,

controls;


where payment failure fees are charged, or an

implementing appropriate data security

intermediary bank or beneficiary bank charges a fee

measures;

for on-sending or receiving the funds. These fees are



conducting robust data security testing;



implementing an appropriate disaster recovery
plan.

However, please note that we are not able to
completely mitigate this risk, and we are not able to
guarantee

that

the

Send

Platform

will

be

continuously available or free from bugs or viruses.
Send reserves its rights to vary, discontinue, change,
amend, withdraw, or suspend access to the Send
Platform and the services.

However, there may be instances where transaction

set by the third-party provider, and we do not have
control over them.
Third party transactions and processing fees will
vary depending on the relevant charge and the third
party, and we are not usually able to anticipate if
they will be charged.
Please consider this when booking a transaction, for
example, where you are paying an invoice in a
foreign currency and require a specific amount to
be received.

Send Product Disclosure Statement

13

Additionally, from time to time Send may, at its sole

situation and objectives or your specific financial

discretion, integrate with various third-party service

circumstances.

providers to enable additional pay-in methods for
funding your Send Account or paying for a Foreign
Exchange

Contract.

Those

third-party

service

providers may charge a fee for use of that pay-in
method which may be on-charged to you if you
choose to utilise that pay-in method. These fees will
vary but are typically a set fee or a percentage of
the value transferring (or a combination of both) Send does not set the fees or make any profit on the
fees. Send will display the fee to you at the point of

Accordingly, you will need to make your own
assessment

as

to

whether

our

services

are

appropriate for you. We recommend that you take
all necessary steps to understand the risks and
implications of utilising our services and obtain
independent advice from licenced professionals
(including but not limited to legal professionals and
financial

advisers

as

relevant)

regarding

the

suitability of our services for you prior to retaining
Send’s services.

transfer so you can decide whether to proceed with
that pay-in method. You can opt out of paying these

While Send will take all reasonable steps to ensure

fees by utilising a pay-in method that does not

the information and general advice provided is

attract fees (for example by paying via payID).

accurate

If you have queries or concerns about the above,
please speak to your Account Manager.
How does Send make money?
Send is generally remunerated for its services from
profit generated from the spread applied to foreign
currency exchange transactions (‘margin’). That is,
the difference between the wholesale market rate
that we purchase from our liquidity providers, and
the trade price which is then sold and provided to
you.

Send’s income is

incorporated into the

exchange rates quoted to you and is not an
additional fee.
Our margin, and subsequent profit amount will vary
depending on the currency, the market, and
arrangements we enter into with third parties,
including our liquidity provider/s.

9. Independent advice
General advice only
We will only ever provide you with general advice
regarding any transaction you enter into with Send.
This advice will not take into account your personal

Send Product Disclosure Statement

and

reliable,

Send

makes

no

representations about the accuracy, completeness
or currency of any information or general advice
given. No responsibility is assumed regarding the
accuracy,

completeness

or

currency

of

any

information or general advice provided, by Send or
by

its

directors,

employees,

officers,

agents,

associates, contractors or sub-contractors.
Taxation advice
There may be significant taxation implications
arising

from

Foreign

Exchange

Contracts.

Additionally, rules regarding taxation may change
from time to time or depending on the jurisdictions
of

the

currencies

exchanged.

In

these

circumstances, we strongly recommend that you
obtain advice from an appropriately qualified
taxation professional (prior to entering into any
transaction with Send) as to any implications which
are relevant to you and your circumstances.

10. How to use our services
How to obtain our products
In order to obtain our products, you must register an
account with Send.

14

An important part of registration (and our ongoing
processes) includes the verification of your identity

If there is an error in the details, you must advise us

and the review and acceptance of our Terms and

of the error immediately for correction.

Conditions, Privacy Policy, FSG and PDS.
Once booked, the Foreign Exchange Contract is a
Your registration and ongoing use of our services will

legally binding contract and you are obliged to

be subject to the satisfaction of our ongoing

comply

compliance processes, and Send reserves its right

Exchange Contract as detailed in the Terms and

to refuse to provide services to you pursuant to our

Conditions.

with

the

obligations

of

that

Foreign

Terms and Conditions.
A trade confirmation may include details regarding
We may provide our services to you by the Send

how you must effect settlement of the Foreign

Platform or by phone, or any other method offered

Exchange Contract, including the amount and the

by Send from time to time, including by any Send-

currency type of the amount that you are required

developed products, such as via API.

to deposit into your Send account to settle the

Booking a trade

transfer, and the timing that payment/s must be

In order to enter into a Foreign Exchange Contract,

received (which will be determined at Send’s sole

you must provide certain information to Send,

discretion).

which will include:
If you fail to comply with the settlement instructions


the amount and currency pairing that you

within the relevant timeframes, Send reserves its

want to send funds from and receive funds

right to, without any further notice to you:

in;




details of the type of Foreign Exchange

any other open Foreign Exchange Contract

Contract you want to enter into (for

between you and Send);

example, a Delayed Contract, or Spot



Contract – see further information on types
of contracts above);


cancel the Foreign Exchange Contract (or

refuse to enter into any other Foreign
Exchange Contracts with you; and/ or



the Beneficiary details, including their

recover from you any losses from you
arising from the cancellation/s.

name and bank details; and


any other such information reasonably
requested by Send pursuant to its Terms
and Conditions.

Send will provide you with an Exchange Rate based
on the above information, and, if acceptable to
you, you may offer to enter into a Foreign Exchange
Contract with Send at the proposed Exchange Rate.
Confirmation of the trade will be issued to you, and,
in the absence of any manifest error or notice from
you, will be conclusive evidence of the executed
Contract. You must carefully review the details of
this confirmation.
Send Product Disclosure Statement

11. Compliance
Send is dedicated to upholding its obligations under
the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism

Financing Act 2006 (C’th). These obligations include
obtaining information from you in order to verify
your identity and the purpose for your transfer.
In order to obtain our services, you must agree to
comply with our Terms and Conditions, which
outlines various compliance obligations including:


you must provide us with information and
materials requested by us;
15



you agree that you will not use our services
for any unlawful activity.



by email to [EMAIL]; or



by post to:

Send may suspend or close your account, or refuse
to provide its services to you in its absolute

Dispute Resolution

discretion, including for example where:

[ADDRESS]
Southport QLD 4215



you

fail

to

provide

information

or

AUSTRALIA

documents;



Send is not satisfied with information or

Please provide as much detail and as many

documents provided by you; or

documents as possible to assist in the investigation.

Send is not satisfied with the outcome of its

We may request that you provide additional

checks and inquiries.

information or materials to assist with completing
the investigation.

We may also be required to provide information to
the authorities without notice to you.

We will conduct our investigation into your concern
or complaint and will endeavour to resolve or

We accept no liability for any loss or damage

provide a final response to your correspondence

resulting from any delay, cancellation or other

within 30 days, having regard to the circumstances

action taken by Send in order to fulfil its compliance

of your concern or complaint.

obligations.
Step three: Independent review

12. Complaints
We are committed to providing you with the best
possible service. However, we have established an
internal and external dispute resolution process to
ensure that any concerns or complaints you may
have are dealt with quickly and fairly, having regard
to the circumstances.

If the internal investigation does not resolve your
concern or complaint, you may request that the
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (‘AFCA’)
conducts a review of the matter. AFCA is an
independent financial services dispute resolution
provider that is free for consumers.
You can find additional information about AFCA on
their website: www.afca.org.au, and contact them:

If you have a concern or complaint you can take the
following steps.
Step one: Contact us

concern or complaint.

By telephone: [PHONE]


By email: [EMAIL]



By post: Australian Financial Complaints
Authority, [ADDRESS]

Please contact your Account Manager, or other
point of contact at Send in writing outlining your



13. Privacy

Step two: Internal investigation

By utilising our services, you agree to your personal

If your complaint or concern has not been resolved

information being collected, retained, used and

at Step One, you may request that an internal

shared in accordance with our Privacy Policy, which

investigation is completed by one of our Senior

is

available

on

our

website

Managers by sending a request in writing:
Send Product Disclosure Statement

16

at

www.sendpayments.com,

or

by

request

to

exchange

[EMAIL]

for

another

currency.

Our Privacy Policy covers:

Foreign Exchange

An

Contract

purchase

agreement

for

of

the

foreign

currency in exchange for


our collection of personal information from

another currency at an

you, including the types of information we

agreed Exchange Rate on

collect,

the

an

the

Date.

the purpose

information,

and

how

of collecting
we

collect

information;







Send Platform

agreed

Settlement

means the Send website,

how we disclose and use your personal

www.sendpayments.com,

information;

or such other website or

the steps we take to secure your data and

platform

owned

information secure and protected from

operated

by

accidental,

unauthorised

provide its products from

access, improper use, loss, disclosure or

time to time, and any other

alteration;

method that Send uses to

how you can access and correct your

provide

its

personal information;

including

by any Send

how long we will retain your personal

mobile

information for;

customer portal.

unlawful

or

how you can opt out of receiving marketing

Settlement Date

and

Send

to

products,

application,

and

means the date that the

material or information from us;

Foreign Exchange Contract



how we use cookies and adwords;

completes



how you can make a complaint;

between you and Send,



how we can amend our Privacy Policy.

and

all

as

agreed

funds

to

be

transferred have arrived in

14. Glossary

the

designated

Send

account.
In this PDS, the following words have the following

Spot Contract

at section 3.

meanings unless the context indicates to the

Spot

contrary:

Contract

Exchange Rate
Account Manager

means

the

Account

means the Exchange Rate
quoted by Send in respect
of a Spot Contract

dedicated
Manager

has the meaning outlined

Delayed Contract

has the meaning outlined
at section 4.

assigned to you by Send
from time to time that will
assist you as required in

The following rules of interpretation apply to this

any transactions you enter

statement:

into with Send.

Exchange Rate

means the rate or price



A reference to:

that one currency can be
purchased or sold at, in

o

legislation is to that legislation, as
amended,

Send Product Disclosure Statement

varied,

re-enacted
17

or

replaced, and includes any subordinate
legislation issued under it;
o

anything (including a right, obligation or
concept) includes each part of it;

o

a singular word includes the plural, and
vice versa; and

o

a word which suggests one gender
includes the other genders.



Headings are for convenience only, and do
not affect the interpretation of this Policy.



If an example is given of anything (including
a right, obligation or concept), such as by
saying it includes something else, the
example does not limit the scope of that
thing.

Send Product Disclosure Statement

18